---
layout: post
title: Minitest!
---

Having some experience with Rspec I wanted to set out to use more TDD in my development process.  Because who wants to get trapped in some kind of constant bug pop up hell after a refactor or some angry client phone call waking you up at 3 am?

After poking around the internet I found a link to pice from Treehouse learning about Minitest and it got me interested.

http://blog.teamtreehouse.com/short-introduction-minitest

Knowing that Minitet came with Rails 5 was enough to make me want to give it a go.  while trying to set up my first tests I ran into an issue while using Devise.

{% highlight ruby %}
require 'test_helper'

class UserTest < ActiveSupport::TestCase
  test "should be invalid without an email" do
    users(:one).email = nil
    assert_nil users(:one).email
    assert_equal false, users(:one).valid?
   end

   test "should be invalid without an encrypted password" do
     users(:one).encrypted_password = nil
     assert_nil users(:one).encrypted_password
     assert_equal false, users(:one).valid?
    end
end
{% endhighlight %}

This cause a tricky error because Devise makes sure the username (email) is unique.  The fixtures file will cause this to fail it the two fixture in the model.yml file is not commented out.

{% highlight ruby %}
# Read about fixtures at http://api.rubyonrails.org/classes/ActiveRecord/FixtureSet.html

# This model initially had no columns defined. If you add columns to the
# model remove the '{}' from the fixture names and add the columns immediately
# below each fixture, per the syntax in the comments below
#
one: {}
# column: value
#
#two: {}
# column: value
{% endhighlight %}

This solution lets me pass my tests and make sure my models are reliable.  So far I find Minitest easy and fun to use so I believe I will keep it in my skill set.
